hey guys i'm gonna give you a walk
through a base gym in sydney come and
check it out
[Music]
so
welcome to base gym i'm going to
go through each piece of equipment that
we have and explain what we do with it
even though it's pretty obvious but i'm
also going to detail with why we chose
the specific pieces of equipment that we
chose and i'm going to start
by taking it to our center platform
which is most likely what you see most
of when i'm doing any of my big lifts
that i post on social media
so this is our center stage this is the
signage here based gym that's my
favorite part of the gym believe it or
not and we've actually got three of
these platforms they're exactly the same
they've been leveled so not all floors
are perfectly level but we have to make
sure that it's a
a power lifters gym and we wanted level
surfaces so not just a power lifters gym
also we've got weightlifting equipment
as well come and check it out so i'll
take you to the very first platform so
this is a center insert from alico the
rest of it is made the rubber mat is
a regular pole
for those
uh that makes a difference too but it's
very high quality rubber
yeah this center insert we got this from
alico all it is is timber but it looks
good it's the same
type of equipment aliko as all of the
barbells that we have so we like to keep
it all uniform so this is
all of the barbells most of the barbells
we have i should say not all of them are
eleco this is a uh the same barbell that
you see in the olympics so the ones that
you see with the blue stickers so the
blue sticker on it and blue ends that's
an iwf spec barbell we've got another
one over here this is our spare
combo rack so this is what you see in
the power lifting setup this one was our
first combo rack that we had from our
last gym probably about seven years old
and then when the new
aliko range came out we had to have it
that's when we moved in here we've moved
in here about two years ago but because
of covert it kind of seems like we moved
in here yesterday but that's what you
see all of these the black colored
electro gear so this is a squat stand
from eleco it's quite funny whenever we
do heavy squats on this
a lot of social media kind of say where
did you get that rack from be careful
it's not safe it's too flimsy or
whatever they say but regardless
a lot of the best weight losses in the
world this is just a squat stand for
them
and it does hold the heavy weights so
we're fine um check out the plates that
we've got here these are the bumper
plates
uh as you can see
a lot of this is worn off but these are
eleco plates they're competition spec
um so these will last us forever these
are calibrated so if it says 10
kilograms or 20 kilograms it's the exact
weight that it says it is
so those are the calibrated bumper
plates so bumper plates is what you see
in the olympics that's with the cleaner
jerk and the snatch and the reason why
they use bumper plates is because
they're going to be dropping them from
overhead onto the ground you don't
really want to be doing that with power
lifting plates
the power lifting plates
come over here
these are the power lifting plates
they're metal and they're thin because
power lifters lift a lot more weight
than weight lifters
because of the nature of the exercise
no disrespect to any of the weight
lifters but in order for them to fit the
amount of weight that they're lifting
they need a thinner plate
so that's the power lifting plates you
don't want to be dropping those from
overhead but this is our center stage
uh check out the rack that we have here
i'll wait till that noise goes so that
you can hear me talk
we live probably about 10 minutes drive
from the airport so airplanes fly over
here all the time
but this is a combo rack it's an ipf
spec combo wrap a combo rack ipf is the
international powerlifting federation so
this is pretty much the gold standard
for this style of rack
actually if i was to get a home set up
this would be whatever you see on this
platform this is pretty much for you
it's a combo rack so i can take this
bench out and
it turns into a squat rack
so it's an all in one piece
and it's probably
it's my favorite piece of equipment with
my favorite barbell as well so that was
the blue bar this is the red bar people
ask what this red sticker is it's just
shows that it's
the
particular barber which is a
powerlifting style of barbell which is
slightly different to a weightlifting
style of barbell but whenever you see
the red ends on these electro bars
that's power lifting
of course you can get rid of this
this rack all together and it's a
deadlifting platform
so this floor is made to dump heavy
weights on um yeah that's what we had
these three platforms we had them
perfectly leveled which is important to
us because when you put the barbell down
obviously you want to be lifting on a
heavy surface but you don't want the
barbell to be rolling all over the place
uh
third platform this is our
it's called a mono rack
or a mono lift it's a squat rack it's
one of those ones that you see in
competition where you stand and unrack
it and you don't have to walk it out
because these handles
okay that pulls that rack out for you
which comes in handy when we're lifting
really heavy weight
walking out a really heavy weight can
get really really shaky and unsafe so
this is a really safe
spot rack to use we've also got these
safety ropes as well
these are very very heavy duty the most
that i've dropped on here
i think 365 kilograms and it caught it
just nicely this barbell too uh this
barbell is made for squatting it's a
squat specific barbell made by goliath
uh the reason why i get these barbells
as well it's because that's what we use
in the competitions that we compete in
so some people might think a certain bar
is better than another
um
whatever it is the ones that we use in
competition that's the ones that i had
to get so this is a goliath bar this
weighs 25 kilograms
all of the other olympic bars the
powerlifting bar and
the weight lifting bar they're 20
kilograms calibrated of course this is
25 kilograms
um
very thick
and if you use it for the first time you
probably won't like it because it's
really really thick and the knurling or
the grip on it is very thick and very
rough because it's designed for people
to i think the biggest squat that we had
here was graham hicks with 420 kilograms
so it's designed to uh spot big numbers
like that and if we use the thinner bar
which obviously they do still in some
competitions they use that power lifting
bar there's a lot of whip on it which
makes it much harder to lift
[Music]
and also with the plates the thinner
plates it makes it so it's more it's
closer to the center so that when you've
got a thick bar with the thin plates it
doesn't shake that much
um
which is really important and it makes
it easy for me to squat
but you get good at whatever you
practice but we've been practicing with
the proper squat bar that we use in the
competitions that we compete in in
australia and of course this is the
third platform so this is the same
platform it's the same rubber that we've
used on all the platforms and you can
drop a really heavy weight and it's not
going to damage anything and of course
this is leveled as well but these are
the only parts of the gym that are
leveled the rest of it is relatively
level it's level enough but we're not
doing any comp lifts anywhere else you
can see we've got all the machines which
i'm about to show you now
so yeah that's that's the center stages
well this is the center stage but all of
these are very equivalent uh this is our
competition
practice area these platforms this is
the pride and joy of of base gym
but now come and check out let's start
with the dumbbells
we love our dumbbells as well
we've got the dumbbells that we bought
were watson
watson have become pretty famous from a
lot of the great gyms and social media
posting their nice shiny dumbbells and
uh yeah so they've gotten a lot of
popularity so you guys may know that
they come in different size handles we
chose the medium sized handle
they also come in handles that rotate
these ones don't rotate they have a
thicker grip than this and a lot of
people ask me why didn't i get the
thicker grip
the reason is
our dumbbells go up to 80 kilograms and
picking up an 80 kilogram dumbbell is
hard enough as it is
but when you want to throw in a really
thick grip it just becomes a bit of a
nuisance to use so we've got a number of
really strong lifters that train here
and a lot of people that can handle
those 80 kilogram dumbbells and if they
had to pick them up off the rack
with the thick handles the thick grips
they probably wouldn't really use
dumbbells as often so in my opinion the
mid grip
that's my favorite
no offense if you like a different type
this is just how i like it and so do all
the people that train here so as you can
see our dumbbells go to 80 kilograms
that's in five kilogram increments from
55 to 80. but before that up to 50
kilograms we go up into a half kilogram
increments
so yeah starting at five kilograms
five kilograms all the way up in two and
a half kilogram increments up to the 50s
watts and dumbbells
i'm going to say they're the best
dumbbells in the world
and you've got our bee logo on it as
well so they do custom designs as well
which is perfect
uh we've got watts and benches as well
so we bought the benches from the same
place these are very heavy
uh they do ones with wheels as well we
didn't have the wheels we didn't really
need them um but these are very very
heavy duty
pretty loud but very very solid so when
you're
using heavy dumbbells and pressing heavy
weights you want a very solid base of
support so
i love these benches i've used other
benches that people like as well but in
my opinion
they might be easier to carry around
because they're lighter weight
but they're not as sturdy as these so
i'd say these are probably up there with
the best uh benches uh on the market
so this is our dumbbell section
uh next up the next part over here so
this is on the same type of rubber uh
the difference is this surface isn't
level i mean it's pretty level you would
no one would understand no one would
notice a difference but we made sure
that the competition side is perfect
this side
is perfect enough
now we've got
the bench press so this is also
unlike the eleca the eleco is also a
competition bench press but the
competition that i compete in and most
of the power lifters in australia use
this specific benchmark
which is an am fx dominator
is it the best i don't know it's pretty
good but it doesn't matter whether it's
the best or not it's the one that we use
in competition so we want the exact
specific
bench that we're using competition with
the exact specific bar so this is
another one of those red bars that we
saw over here power lifting bar which
just so happens to be my favorite bar
this is the liko
ipf spec power lifting bar it's my
favorite barbell to bench press with
while we're over here check out the
barbells this is all about spare
barbells um
when we have multiple lifters we want to
not be fighting each other for the
equipment so we've got this is all
competition grade uh this is another one
of those red power lifting bars from
eliteco
these are our deadlift bars so we've got
the new competitions in australia we use
different barbells so we've got the
goliath bars which are 20 kilogram bars
which are very similar
to the texas deadlift bar so the texas
deadlift bar is what you see most high
level competitions deadlift world
records are set on on this bar here
but the australian competitions are
going to be moving to the goliath bar
either way we've got both of those
so deadly bars this yellow bar that you
see that's um it's the women's
uh iwf barbell what they use in the
women's competition in the olympics for
the cleaning joke in the snatch uh and
then the bar underneath it's a 10
kilogram technique bar that's what i use
for my my baby girl my daughter
and she's been training since she was
seven years old i guess it's safe
within reason if you've been following
you'll see how she trains she's a
technician and that's what she started
on now she can use the 20 kilogram bars
but yeah the 10 kilogram bar is a great
addition for any gym to have uh for
technique training
for all of the major barbells so we've
got
another weight tree
looks a little bit messier than the rest
over here because these are the random
plates um
all of the smaller increments so we've
got half quarter kilogram half kilogram
1.25 kilograms all of the incremental
plates
that that's all here
now we go into accessory exercise
uh starting off with the leg press so
this is a leg press from atlantis
i love this piece of machine isn't the
best in the world i don't know it's
pretty good i'm sure a lot of
bodybuilders might have a different
opinion on what's the best in the world
but i love this and i know a lot of
people love using it as well it's really
smooth really comfortable
atlantis lake press
over here we have
more atlantis this is an atlantis
hamstring curl and it's also a leg
extension so
it's set up as a hand a lying hamstring
curl now
but we can
[Music]
lift this bench and set it up so that
it's
[Music]
a leg extension too so
great thank you bug piece of equipment
uh atlantis love that one
next up we have uh let's go past here
we've got the competition scales these
are calibrated and they tell you exactly
how heavy you weigh which is important
because we're all competitive athletes
and we compete in weight classes as well
so it's always good to know exactly how
much you weigh especially as you're
approaching competition
now let's check out
our cable
uh setup this is mainly for upper back
exercises so we've got a seated cable
row uh adjustable pulley
actually of all of these if i was to
have a home set up i wouldn't have the
center cable row or the lap pull down
but i would have the adjustable pulley
because it's small it's compact
and it's great for all of your accessory
exercises love our face pulls you can do
triceps biceps
and all of the shoulder health exercises
love this this piece in particular but i
love the whole thing because we do have
a gym it's not uh we're not restricted
on size like we would be it feels to be
a home setup um so
seated cable row uh adjustable pulley so
this goes from the high setting to
wherever you want
and on that pull down so
the lat pull down check out the grips
that we have we've got so many different
attachments we've got the wide grip this
is the mag grip love that
we've got ropes we've got
wide rip close grip mid grips we've got
thick handles uh i love using thick
handles
um for all of my pulling it develops
grip strength so
for power lifters who need strong grip
to hold the deadlift bar as well as
combat athletes a lot of people need
strong grip strong grip is a good thing
to have
and thick grip handles is a great way of
developing it with any of your your
rowing or pulling exercises
a few more pieces check this out
this is another row machine so
this is the stuff that doesn't get a
huge amount of attention all these uh
back exercises but we do have a lot of
focus on training our back
because it's very important to have a
very strong back if you're a strength
athlete
so it's pretty boring to post it on
instagram all of the rows and pull-ups
and pull-downs so we just don't post it
that much but we spend a lot of time
over here
and this is a uh
this is from watson as well um
and you've got so it's basically a chest
supported row
you know it goes like that
and
these handles adjust which is nice
so you can use pronated neutral
supinated grip
and also you can adjust the settings so
you can use wider or closer um
great pieces of equipment that's from
watson as well
and over here we have a good hand raise
so this is from atlantis
we've had other pieces as well you know
it's just a bench that you do your glute
ham raises on or 90 degree hip
extensions and it's very very
comfortable some pieces are too hard on
your legs and
it sounds like we shouldn't be saying it
because we're a strength gym and people
shouldn't complain about a discomfort
but
when it's too hard it smashes your quads
uh but this is perfect cushioning uh
excellent piece so that's an atlantis uh
glute ham raise love this piece so
obviously it's a posterior chain
developer
that's all the pieces of equipment uh
let's show you some more parts of the
gym
while we're here check out the kitchen
not much of a kitchen it's a kitchenette
it's a fridge sink
we eat so it was important to have one
of these
and come over here you've probably seen
this on social media as well this is the
famous selfie mirror
so selfie mirror right here
this is the bathrooms as well
beautiful tiles not that i pay too much
attention to it but my wife felicia one
half of the base body babes is an
interior designer as well
so she made sure everything looked
pretty but these you know these tiles
she
picked out carefully
so they look nice i hope you like them
as well come and check out our bathrooms
so toilet shower usual stuff
um yeah
another selfie mirror i've done a few
selfies there as well
and uh i'd say that's that's pretty much
it so that's based jim
what's what's uh that down there best
thank you for reminding me so that's uh
a lot of the work that happens here
because it's not just a gym this is
where
we make our living so down here that's
my office
uh you may have seen me do a lot of
recording
with our amazing videographer who's
holding this camera now
that's that's uh ben or bass the man
himself so he records me doing a lot of
content creation whether it's on the gym
floor or uh in this area here this is my
office
uh
yeah so that's my office you can see
some of the camera setup is there
but usually i sit on this end of the
table and hear it
from from over there where you can see
so that we can see the gym in the
background and i usually talk and do my
presentations from here so you may
recognize that area
and then we've got the office space for
our amazing staff so this is where all
of the
film work gets edited as well as
we've got our team of online coaches
and research developers
and they live in here so we've got a lot
of our props as well you can probably
see that skeleton man that's our anatomy
chart
uh as well
and um that's pretty much it so the next
thing
i guess that i could show you
but we're not allowed to is uh the base
body studio which is upstairs maybe
we're gonna have to save that for
another time because
there might be some girls in there and
it's a women-only gym
so i'm not allowed right now even though
i'm a part business owner
but that's okay
so that's base gym i hope you enjoyed it
and i hope you enjoyed the explanation
of why we use the equipment and why we
chose the brands that we chose
and that's it i hope you enjoyed it
you